Main Objective:
The main objective of this analysis is to performclusteringonacustomer dataset to identify different customer segments andtheir buying behavior. 
This will help in targeted marketing andincrease sales revenue for the business.

Data Set Description:
The dataset used in this analysis is the Online Retail Dataset
which contains all the transactions occurring for a UK-basedonline retailer over a period of one year. The dataset consists of
541,909 transactions and 8 attributes including Customer ID, Product Description, Quantity, and Unit Price. 
The data is inastructured format and is available in a CSV file.

Data Exploration and Cleaning:
After loading the dataset, initial exploratory data analysis wasperformed to check for missing values, outliers, and
inconsistencies. There were some missing values in the CustomerID column, which were dropped since they were deemed
insignificant. In addition, some new features were createdliketotal purchase value and the number of unique products
purchased by each customer.

Unsupervised Models:
Three unsupervised models were trained on the dataset toperform clustering. 
The models used were K-Means Clustering, Hierarchical Clustering, and Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM). 
K-Means Clustering was trained with different numbers of clusters, ranging from 2 to 10, to find the optimal number of clusters. 
Hierarchical Clustering was performed using different linkagemethods such as Ward, Complete, and Average. 
GMMwas trainedusing different covariance types including spherical, diagonal, andtied.

Recommended Model: After comparing the performance of thethree models, the K-Means Clustering model with 4 clusterswasselected 
as the final model since it provided the best results. 
The model was able to identify 4 distinct customer segments withdifferent buying patterns.

Key Findings and Insights:
The analysis revealed four distinct customer segments withdifferent buying behaviors. The first segment consists of high-value customers who made large purchases, 
the second segment contains customers who purchased frequently but with smallerorder values. 
The third segment includes customers who madeonly a single purchase, and the fourth segment consists of
customers who made small purchases but frequently. Thisinformation can be utilized to create targeted marketing
strategies for each segment.

Next Steps:
In future analysis, more features like demographics data andwebsite usage data can be included to improve the model'sperformance. 
Also, other clustering techniques such as DBSCANand Spectral Clustering can be explored to compare their
performance with the models used in this analysis

